Now let's use dynamic polymorphism to solve our problem.
What I will do is change the object type into salesman.
So let's go ahead we'll change this to salesman and I will also change this salesman see it still works
then I will go ahead and rewrite to show me how to sell method and say that it only takes salesman type
and once it takes a salesman type he just calls the sell method on it.
So I'll just say this is salesman.
And then I will say here's the beautiful part I don't need any of this take all this stuff out and I
just say sell boom.
That's it.
All right.
Isn't this much cleaner.
And guess what.
This is fully satisfying our business requirement.
So if they added another type such as online marketer it would still work without us having to touch
the code.
Let's go out and do that actually.
I will go to explore say new file online marketer dot see yes.
All right.
Now I will simply just go here grab that.
You already know the drill rename.
Copy that.
And that's why my name is the full name I were recommended to buy this online product.
OK.
And no developing so keeping it simple once again.
All right.
And let's go ahead to the program and I will say a new online marketer.
And we will say Steve Rogers OK.
Check this out.
Beautiful.
See we don't have to touch our method.
We don't do anything with it.
They can add 50 types.
They can add 100 types.
They can have billions of rows.
We don't care.
This method will never change if they change something other with their business requirements for example
if they want to see the sell method and they want to do something else.
Yeah.
We can change this method no problem.
But we don't have to change it based on the number of rows or any different types that they add.
And that is beautiful.
Let me go ahead and run this code actually.
So I will breakpoint it right here and say run.
And once again we have our list.
That's cool.
We've gone through our list and check it out.
One two three four and five so two car salesmen and retail salesperson insurance broker online marketer
it does not care.
It just says as long as you are of salesman type so you are inheriting from a salesman.
If this parent class is pointing to any of these child classes it will be able to take care of it and
call its sell method.
So the sell method will be directed from the child class that is being passed into this method which
takes in the parent class so the parent class will be pointing to one of these child classes whichever
one happens to come into this method in the first run the parent class is pointing to this child class.
The second run the parent class is pointing to this child class.
The third one this one fourth one it's pointing to this one in fifth one is pointing to this one right.
You get the idea and is is pointing to these classes.
It knows how to handle the sell method.
So this is what we mean by method overwriting.
The method has the same signature.
However the implementation is completely different.
Now that we've seen how to perform dynamic polymorphism using abstract classes let's see how it is done
using interfaces.
Let's say a requirement now is very similar but instead in the database they have types which are self
developing and the rest of the requirements are the same.
So once again we would have a list of self developing classes and imagine that it has been loaded with
all of the items from the database.
In other words let's just imagine for simplicity's sake that we don't have to instantiate a class once
a new role comes into the database but it is being loaded into the list here automatically.
Just like I mentioned before.
And then all we have to do is loop around and pass individual items into our method.
So what we do I'm gonna stop this and we're going to just have another list are similar but in this
case we're using interfaces so I'm going to say self developing and I'm going to say self developing
and we see we can't include these guys in there because none of them satisfy the interface requirements
right.
So these can't be here but guess what retail salesperson is not underlined.
Red why.
Because it is of type self developing.
Now the other type that we had was web developer see web developer and we can have that here and we
just give it something like C sharp all right.
And that's cool.
And then we will have another method that's similar to this.
And this one says show me how you self developed and it's going to take an interface of type self developing
all right.
And it's gonna say call the developed method on self developing so not sell developed.
OK.
Very very similar.
Now we actually have to also change the method name I forgot to do that.
So change the method name and the item that we're gonna pass into.
Also it's not salesmen.
It was just a copy paste there.
So it's going to have to go through all self developing and that's the item we're going to pass that
item in to show me.
Show me how you self develop.
So show me how you self develop and then it's gonna show us how it develops.
OK so now we're gonna go through we're gonna run and as you can see we're all that he ran through all
the salesman that's cool but now it's time for us to run to a self developing.
All right.
So now it's gonna go through and you're gonna say I double myself by watching retail sales training
videos because we had retail salesperson first one on the list and then we're gonna go through a second
one is gonna say I devote myself by watching you Demi web development courses because it was a web developer.
All right.
So once again same idea if we add more types and we hooked them up with the self developing interface
we can include it in this list and we can also put it through this method.
Another beautiful thing is that if you have a abstract class or you have an interface you are able to
create regulation and stability into your program meaning that you can log into what can go into this
list.
For example right now we have retail salesperson and web developer.
If this was an object then guess what.
We can still do this.
However the problem here is that anything else we put in here that is not from an interface cell developing
could get into this list.
So for example if it's a new car salesman copy this and I put it right here.
This can get into it just as simply but if we put self developing interface what this does is it creates
a regulation it creates boundaries around what can get into this list and what can not get into this
list.
And it just basically creates as I mentioned more stability into our program.
Another quick thing to note is the fact that right here I have an abstract class and here I have an
interface see an abstract class unifies related objects so car salesmen retail salesperson insurance
broker online marketer These are all unified but these are all related objects because they basically
have common functionality here.
The interface can unify unrelated group of objects so retail salesperson web developer that early have
much to do with each other but they're unified through an interface.
So that's another difference that I wanted to show you through this code.
Even though we talked about it already but it's a good demonstration of the same idea so that's all
for this video.
Well that he went over the dynamic polymorphism and in the next section we'll be talking about encapsulation.